I don’t have anything particular in mind to sit down and write about, all I know is that I should be doing it. So here I am. Don’t expect anything of me. 

I kind of want to naturally recline into the old habit of just writing what I have been doing lately but who gives a shit. I guess the point is that I am feeling kind of grumpy today. Grumpy and unmotivated. I could tell you all the things I have been doing despite that, but again, who cares. It’s hard to find the right scale of meaning to even try and look into, and sometimes hedonism loses its shiny appeal after a while, like anything else. Which comes as a surprise to me.

It’s hard not to fall into the old rhythms of platitudes and cliches, to not hide behind well-worn turns of phrase that encapsulate patterns of being that do not really truly capture the specific and unique flavor of malaise that I am working through. But it’s a waste of breath and typing-energy to even consider it, I suppose. What do people even write about? What inspires people to care about a thing, or obsess about it, or like, feel confident enough to feel that other people might want to enjoy their thoughts? It feels particularly alien to me to express uncertainty in writing because, again, who gives a shit. I guess it is cathartic in its own way. But I guess I find it deeply frustrating and unsatisfying. 

Maybe in the sense that the words accumulate, stack together, and a number steadily goes up. That’s good. I suppose. That’s one thing worth worshipping. I do like it when numbers go up. But it also sort of cheapens the words– given this hidden compulsion, wouldn’t I go out of my way to find the most indirect route to convey an idea? But old writers used to be paid by the word so maybe that’s how we came to get the most irksome (and lauded) purple prose the english language has seen yet. 

